---
title: "Assessing simplified and detailed models for predictive control of space heating in homes"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2014-12-10-paper1
except: "A model of a real system is required for predictive control to determine the best control
sequence when disturbance forecasts and future system status are considered over a defined
time horizon. The selected model should strike a balance between its accuracy and simplicity.
This paper presents a comparison between different modeling approaches for predictive control
of space heating. "
date: 2014-12-10
venue: 'System Simulation in Buildings'
---
<a href="http://kuzha.github.io/files/kunzhang-p2014.pdf">Download PDF here</a>.

A model of a real system is required for predictive control to determine the best control
sequence when disturbance forecasts and future system status are considered over a defined
time horizon. The selected model should strike a balance between its accuracy and simplicity.
This paper presents a comparison between different modeling approaches for predictive control
of space heating. The case study is electric baseboard heating in homes within cold climate
regions with the objective of reducing peak electricity demand (and saving costs if tariffs
include a peak power charge). Detailed TRNSYS models of the selected house are developed
and predictive control is implemented by using GenOpt as the optimization tool. This approach
is compared with optimal predictive control algorithms based on simpler models. These models
are obtained by parameter identification using data generated from the detailed TRNSYS
models. Both approaches use perfect forecasts for the occupancy and the weather data in order
to focus the analysis on model differences. Results show that MPC can deliver a significant
reduction in power demand during on-peak periods with both modelling approaches (55% with
detailed model, 33% with simplified model). The detailed model delivers significantly better
savings but implies a calculation time that is more than 2 orders of magnitude higher. The
potential of both approaches is discussed in the context of residential heating control to support a smart grid.
