---
title: "Development and Verification of Control Sequences for SingleZone Variable Air Volume System Based on ASHRAE Guideline 36"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-03-23-paper
date: 2020-03-23
venue: 'American Modelica Conference 2020'
---
[Download the paper here](https://2020.american.conference.modelica.org/proceedings/papers/Modelica2020US_paper_19.pdf)

This paper presents work on the development and
verification of ASHRAE Guideline 36-2018 control
sequences for single-zone variable air volume airhandling unit (AHU) systems. The Control Description
Language, a subset of the Modelica Language, is used
to implement those advanced control sequences. The
sequences address control for components such as the
economizer, supply air temperature setpoint reset, fan
speed control, and zone heating/cooling states
determination. Each component sequence is validated in
open-loop tests and then used to compose a single
comprehensive controller. This controller is also first
validated in open loop and then tested in closed loop
with an AHU system and building envelope model
constructed using the Modelica Buildings library. The
Guideline 36 controller is compared with a conventional
control strategy applied to the same AHU and building
model. Annual simulations show that the Guideline 36
control sequences yield 17.3 % of annual HVAC energy
savings against the conventional control strategy in this
case study

Recommended citation: Zhang K, Blum D H, Grahovac M, Hu J, Granderson J, Wetter M (2018). Development and Verification of Control Sequences for SingleZone Variable Air Volume System Based on ASHRAE Guideline 36. In: Proceedings of the American Modelica Conference 2020, Boulder, CO, USA, March 23-25, pp. 81–90.
